All right, so now we're going to dive a bit deeper into the implications surrounding this new relationship
that we just came up with, and that is as follows.
Again, it's e squared is equal to the rest of energy squared plus this new momentum energy p c squared.
Now, when you look at a quantity like this, the first thing that should pop up into your mind is,
well, it sort of looks like little battery in your own right.
So what would happen if we plotted it up on a right triangle?
Let's do that right now and see what implications that has.
So how that plotted up right here, we can see for the hypotenuse, we have the ITR here.
The bases are composed of the rest of energy and the movement of energy, which pop up right here.
And we know that the total energy is composed of the rest energy and that's the squared plus the kinetic
energy.
So what happens if we change the lines of these bases?
So let's say if we squash this together, so this side is much larger than the rest, the energy side.
When that happens, we find that the energy is mostly kinetic.
It doesn't have much rest energy and this base and that's squared is essentially zero.
So a key term, I want you to keep in the back of your mind.
Key idea is the fact that or I want you to ask this question, what would happen if a particle was accelerating
really fast at a high velocity?
So we had high momentum, high momentum energy, but it had barely any mass or no mass at all.
I know that sounds sort of weird having a mass particle.
Why in the world is that?
But what would happen that would insinuate that the energy is basically just pissy, right?
That's what this relationship is telling us.
So keep that in the back of your head.
Sounds very odd, very weird right now, but I will elaborate that actually elaborate on that actually
in a future.
VIDEO So we see that when the rest of energy is very low, the total energy is mostly composed of kinetic
energy and thoroughly, if we were to squash it in this direction so that P C is very small, we see
that the energy is mostly at rest energy and not c squared.
And that sort of makes sense because if your momentum is small, you don't have a lot of velocity,
you're not moving, you're at rest.
In essence, you have no no velocity, no kinetic energy.
So you have all of your energy.
OK, so we could play little games with this relationship and plot it up.
And geometrically, it tells us some interesting phenomena which we're going to revisit on this side
in a future VIDEO So keep that in the back of your head now.
Next thing I want to say and what I generally say about these ideas is that if we get a relativistic
equation or relationship or idea, we should be able to simplify it down to its classical equivalent
by taking a limit when we are not close to relativistic speeds, when V is much smaller than C, or
that implies that our momentum is very, very small, much smaller than one.
Let's see what happens here.
OK.
So when that happens, we could take our equation here e squared and we're going to square root on the
right side and we can sort of pull out some terms and see what's going to happen.
And we're going to make use of our binomial expansion shortly, but keep that in the back of your head.
So we see that we have c squared terms that are common.
So maybe we could factor out and not c squared squared.
So if we do that, we see that this guy pops up once at that position and then we want to get sort of
get rid of this guy.
So what we could do is if we convert this into p over and not C and square the terms we see when we
distribute this, the end that squared, we're going to cancel.
We get a seat of the fourth over here that's going to cancel C squared to get a C squared up here and
we end up with the original parameter.
So we factor out and then not c squared.
We had a p over and not C, which sorta looks similar to this guy right here.
It's starting to take shape, it's starting to take form and this really is valid.
It should conform to this idea within this limit.
So let's chug along a bit more, OK?
So when we take this guy out, it's a term squared, energy squared.
We can perform at the square root on this term, pull it out to the rest of energy as follows, and
we get this term one plus quantity squared.
This looks very similar to this guy right here.
The quantity one plus x squared to the one half.
And we know that we can describe this through a series expansion.
We're going to expand out the polynomials and evaluate what effect if polynomial has upon the final
result.
What contribution does it provide?
And if we do that, we know that the binomial expansion gives us the following sum from K equals zero
to infinity of the entries K term where we have and it goes to one half and we have K in there and that
has to be multiplied by X to the two K.
So we expand out a few terms.
We get a one plus a one has.
X squared minus one x x, the four plus extraneous terms you don't worry about, because if we are a
small quantity here, we're going to say X is very small.
Rather, I guess, a more appropriate terms to say that this guys is very small, so I'm going to redefine
this a bit more, make it a bit more sensible and logical.
So this is going to be over and not see.
OK, so that guy, obviously, that's going to be much less than one, because C is very large and usually
we have very large masses in the macroscopic world.
So in essence, we're trying to say is that we're trying to make X small because when X is small, this
guy converges.
X is less one.
And if it's law, if you take a small turn squared that small, a small turn to fourth.
That's significantly smaller than this term.
So this is going to be negligent.
It's going to add basically nothing to the final solution.
And we can approximate this term as approximately one plus one half times x squared.
So that's the name of the game.
This guy is the same here where X is equal to p over and not C.
OK.
So we take this guy.
And we use this definition here.
We get one for this whole term here.
One plus one half times over and let's see quantity squared.
We would get this term here, but it's going to cancel out because compared to these leading terms,
and I just explained, it's significantly smaller, right in that bracket, right there.
And when we do that?
We get a very interesting turn.
First of all, this guy factors out here, we get our energy.
That's not surprising.
But here and I'm going to write something right here really fast.
OK, here are the second term, what we end up with is the fact that this through is not c squared divided
by the square C squared.
Well, C squares cancel out, but we get an end, not on the bottom.
So the net effect is we get P-Square over two times and not on the bottom here.
And lo and behold, what happens is.
We see this term popping up right here in this same exact limit, and that increases our confidence
in this relationship and helps to sort of illustrate the fact that, yes, this is a more inclusive
result.
This guy right here, it's more inclusive result that includes this result and results at relativistic
speeds.
And you know, all these relativistic effects crop up.
So this is the absolute term, the relationship we got.
What do we accomplish in this video and this video by simply working through some mathematics, massaging
some equations?
We are able really to bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions or perspectives on the universe,
such that we got this nice universal conception of everything that's transpiring right in front of our
eyes.
All right.
So this relationship in the next video, I'm going to show you how it's so powerful from an analytical
perspective.
And we're going to see how this can help us switch quickly between energy and momentum and also get
this nice absolute representation of the universe.
Hope you enjoyed the video.
Stay tuned for the next one.